Funding opportunitiesSkip to main content

About us 

What we do 

Funding 

Insights 

Motion: On

Become a Programme DirectorSign up for updates

Contact usTerms of use

Back

Back to 

Home

Funding opportunities

Funding

We fund teams to pursue research at the edge of the possible. Discover how we fund and how to apply, and learn what happens post-award.

Funding opportunities

Applicant guidance

Being funded by ARIA

Funding types

Our opportunity spaces are areas of research that we believe are underexplored and ripe for breakthroughs. Within these, we fund projects either as part of a programme or as opportunity seeds.

Programme Funding

Programmes (£10-100m total)

Our programmes pursue some of the most ambitious scientific objectives in the UK. Each programme is made up of a portfolio of projects.

Opportunity Seed

Opportunity seeds (up £500k per project)

Opportunity seeds give individual research teams the freedom to explore new research pathways that might otherwise fall through the cracks.

Funding opportunities

Select to explore more:

Open callsUpcoming callsPast calls

These calls are currently open for applications – make sure to read the calls for proposals before applying.

Opportunity Seed

Trust Everything, Everywhere: Opportunity seeds

As emerging technologies rapidly blur the lines between software and hardware, unlocking the full potential of new cyber-physical markets requires a novel trust infrastructure capable of bridging both realms. We are seeking high-potential proposals to build towards this secure future, with funding available up to £500,000 each. 

Learn more about this call 

Opportunity space

Trust Everything, Everywhere

Programme Director

Alex Obadia

Deadline

27 July 2026

Opportunity Seed

Future Proofing Our Climate and Weather: Opportunity seeds

Decarbonisation is the only sustainable route out of the climate crisis, but environmental changes are outpacing current mitigation efforts. ARIA is seeking proposals for opportunity seeds – funding of up to £500,000 for early-stage research that explores new pathways for climate adaptation and resilience. Please note, all projects will need to comply with the technical constraints, oversight and governance principles established by the Exploring Climate Cooling programme.

Learn more about this call 

Opportunity space

Future Proofing Our Climate and Weather

Programme Director

Mark Symes

Deadline

31 July 2026

Opportunity Seed

Rolling opportunity seeds

We’ve launched a rolling call for opportunity seed proposals across selected opportunity spaces. Building on our previous funding calls, this experimental approach will help us refine future calls. Projects can receive up to £500k each. Please note that not all opportunity spaces are included, and the selection may change over time. We recommend checking the call for proposals to confirm which spaces are currently active. Additionally, we may launch fixed-period calls for opportunity seed proposals outside of the rolling seed process. 

ARIA’s opportunity spaces are evolving, and as such, we will be temporarily pausing our rolling seed call with the aim of re-opening them later this year. The deadline for rolling seed applications is 31 July.

Read the call for proposalsRead the call for proposals (accessible)Apply now 

Opportunity spaces

Mathematics for Safe AI, Scoping Our Planet, Scalable Neural Interfaces, Smarter Robot Bodies, Manufacturing Abundance

Application date

31 July 2026

Applicant guidance

We welcome applications for funding from across the ecosystem – discover the process of applying for ARIA funding and find key resources. 

Learn more 

Being funded by ARIA

R&D Creators are individuals and teams who receive ARIA programme or opportunity seed research funding – learn more about the post-award experience.

Find out more 

Sign up for updates

Keep up-to-date on our latest opportunity spaces, programmes and funding calls.

Sign up

Help us drive momentum 

ContactCareers

Follow our progress

Privacy Policy

Terms and Conditions

Cookie Policy

Accessibility Statement

Accessibility Support

Social Media Policy

Careers

Supply to us

Reporting and Policies

ARIA is a non-departmental public body, sponsored by the Department for Science, Innovation + Technology.

Copyright 2026